# Manual Testing #

First, I set up a single page with the game grid following my wireframing. Using HTML and CSS a responsive game grid with 12 cards was created. With the grid in place my first task was to add event listeners to the cards, once the cards were clicked the cards would now rotate by toggling the class. Animation was achieved using CSS.

The next step was to create a function that would shuffle the position of the cards on the gameboard. I started by setting up the shuffle based on the number of cards that I had on the grid, which was 12. Using the CSS order property, each card was given a random position on the game board. Adding the shuffle function to a document.onload allowed me to test that the cards were shuffling by reloading the page. As I wanted to expand the range of the game to have different size game grids I now looked at a way to check how many cards were in the grid and shuffle the cards based on that number. To confirm I was generating the correct number I changed the number of cards on the grid and wrote the "shuffleNumber" to the log.

After the shuffle was in place I moved on to rotating the cards and having a way to see if the cards were matching or not. By adding a data attribute to each card I was able to store information about the card and thus had something to use to compare values. I set up variables for card one and two and output the values of these to the console log to confirm I had the right data. I then began to check if the cards were matching or not and wrote the result to the log, i.e. "Matched" or "Not Matched". Once the card checking was in place I looked at how to overcome double clicking a card and this counting as a move. I decided to add a "deactivate" class to a card once clicked which would be removed once the cards returned to initial state. Another issue at this stage was clicking a third card in a turn. My solution for this was to setup a lockGameboard state where I would disable the gameboard if a third card was clicked in a turn.

If cards matched I decided to add an extra class to these cards i.e. "pair", I then used this class to count the number of pairs and compare this number to the shuffle number. If these numbers match then the player has won the game. I checked these results by outputting results to the console log. Once I established that this step was working correctly I added a modal box that would appear when the player won the game.

With the basic functionality of the game in place I decided to add a moves counter to the game. I was able to count the number of clicks that occured in the game but this did not equate to the no of moves. My challenge was to only count a move when two cards were clicked and either matched or didn't match. I wrote my card moves to the console log to confirm that the clicks were being tracked but I realised that a move could only occur if two cards were clicked so I would then only trigger the countNoOfMoves function if the number of clicks was divisible by two.
